Add SSO Authentication description of TiDB Cloud (#11929)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-sso-authentication.md

---
title: Single sign-on Authentication
summary: Learn how to sign in via your Google workspace account and your Github Accounts in TiDB Cloud Web console.
---
# SSO(single sign-on) Authentication

> This document describes how individual or corporate users can quickly log in to TiDB CLoud Web Console via Googol workspace and GitHub accounts. Since your identity is centrally hosted on the third-party Google and GitHub platforms, TiDB cloud does not support you to modify your account password and enable MFA after logging in TiDB Cloud via SSO authentication.If you want to know about logging in through user and password , please see [Password Authentication](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-password-authentication.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document describes how to quickly log in to TiDB Cloud Console via Googol workspace and GitHub accounts. 

If you log into TiDB Cloud via SSO authentication, because your identity is centrally hosted on the third-party Google and GitHub platforms, you will not be able to modify your account password and enable MFA in the TiDB console. If you want to log into TiDB Cloud through username and password, see [Password Authentication](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-password-authentication.md)
```

> 

Reviewer: Do we need a section for "sign up with Google SSO"

Author: we do not have verify SSO email process, if we improve sso signup workflow ,we should add this section

## Sign in with Google SSO 

> To Sign in with your Google Workspace, perform these steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To sign in with your Google Workspace account, take the following steps:
```

> 1. Go to the TiDB Cloud login page: [www.tidbcloud.com](https://tidbcloud.com/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Go to the TiDB Cloud [login](https://tidbcloud.com/) page.
```

2. In TiDB Cloud Console, click Sign in With Google.

3. Jump to Google Workspace Console, enter your Google Username and Password to login.

> 4. Login is successful, jump to Choose to agree to "Privacy Policy, Terms of Service"

Reviewer: On the login page https://tidbcloud.com/, there is no "Privacy Policy, Terms of Service".
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/79440533/210912269-d298761f-f154-4631-87fa-60a4c7852ebe.png)

Author: after click sign in wtih google , and then complete the third partner authentication , we will enter a page as following picture
<img width="715" alt="Screen Shot 2023-01-06 at 1 53 44 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/22299783/210939145-112ad7b0-f21c-4ffa-b6fc-b854212216ad.png">

Author: this page need user to accept TiDB Cloud Terms for the first time to login TiDB Cloud via SSO

Reviewer: OK. If so, let's make the info a note as below because it is only for first-time login users via Google SSO.

---
title: Single sign-on Authentication

> summary: Learn how to sign in via your Google workspace account and your Github Accounts in TiDB Cloud Web console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
summary: Learn how to log into the TiDB Cloud console via your Google account or Github account.
```

---
# SSO(single sign-on) Authentication

> This document describes how to quickly log in to TiDB Cloud Console via Googol workspace and GitHub accounts. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document describes how to log in to the TiDB Cloud console via Single Sign-on (SSO) authentication, which is quick and convenient. TiDB Cloud supports SSO for Google and GitHub accounts.
```

If you log into TiDB Cloud via SSO authentication, because your identity is centrally hosted on the third-party Google and GitHub platforms, you will not be able to modify your account password and enable MFA in the TiDB console. If you want to log into TiDB Cloud through username and password, see [Password Authentication](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-password-authentication.md)

## Sign in with Google SSO 

> To sign in with your Google Workspace account, take the following steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To sign in with your Google account, take the following steps:
```

1. Go to the TiDB Cloud [login](https://tidbcloud.com/) page.

> 2. Click **Sign in With Google**. You will be directed to the Google Workspace Console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Click **Sign in With Google**. You will be directed to the Google login page.
```

3. Follow the on-screen instructions to enter your Google username and password. 

> 4. Login is successful, jump to Choose to agree to "Privacy Policy, Terms of Service"

Reviewer: "2-Step Verification (also called two-factor authentication)" reference: https://support.google.com/accounts/answer/185839?hl=en&co=GENIE.Platform%3DDesktop&oco=0#zippy=%2Cuse-google-authenticator-or-other-verification-code-apps

5. Jump back to your TiDB Cloud wecome page for first login successful,and then jump back to your cluster management console.

Note:

This is a secure and convenient way to log in TiDB Cloud Web Console, as your user ID and credentials are stored in a third-party platform database that you can manage its.

> 

Reviewer: moved it to the beginning of this doc

## Sign in with Github SSO

> To Sign in with your Github, perform these steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To sign in with your GitHub account, take the following steps:
```

> 1. Go to the TiDB Cloud login page: [www.tidbcloud.com](https://tidbcloud.com/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Go to the TiDB Cloud [login](https://tidbcloud.com/) page.
```

2. In TiDB Cloud Console, click Sign in With Github.

> 3. Jump to Github Console, enter your Github Username and Password to login.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Follow the on-screen instructions to enter your Github username and password.
```

> 4. Login is successful, jump to Choose to agree to "Privacy Policy, Terms of Service"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If the login is successful, you will be directed to the TiDB cloud console.
 
     > **Note:**
     >
     > - If this is the first time you sign in with Google, you will be asked whether to accept TiDB Cloud terms. After you read and agree with the terms, you will see the TiDB Cloud welcome page and then be directed to the TiDB Cloud console.
     > - If you have configured two-factor authentication for your GitHub account, you will also need to provide the verification code after entering your user name and password.
```

> 5. Jump back to your TiDB Cloud wecome page for first login successful,and then jump back to your cluster management console.
> 
> Note:
> 
> If MFA is enabled on your Google Workspace or GitHub account, please enter your MFA Code to log in successfully,and don't support enable MFA and change password in TiDB Cloud.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---
title: SSO Authentication

> summary: Learn how to log into the TiDB Cloud console via your Google account or GitHub account.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
summary: Learn how to log in to the TiDB Cloud console via your Google account or GitHub account.
```

---

> # SSO Authentication

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

# SSO Authentication
```

> This document describes how to log in to the TiDB Cloud console via Single Sign-on (SSO) authentication, which is quick and convenient.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document describes how to log in to the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com/) via Single Sign-on (SSO) authentication, which is quick and convenient.
```

> TiDB Cloud supports SSO authentication for Google and GitHub accounts. If you log into TiDB Cloud via SSO authentication, because your ID and credentials are stored on the third-party Google and GitHub platforms, you will not be able to modify your account password and enable multi-factor authentication (MFA) using the TiDB console. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
TiDB Cloud supports SSO authentication for Google and GitHub accounts. If you log in to TiDB Cloud via SSO authentication, because your ID and credentials are stored on the third-party Google and GitHub platforms, you will not be able to modify your account password and enable multi-factor authentication (MFA) using the TiDB console. 
```

> **Note:**
>
> If you want to log into TiDB Cloud through username and password, see [Password Authentication](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-password-authentication.md)

## Sign in with Google SSO 

To sign in with your Google account, take the following steps:

1. Go to the TiDB Cloud [login](https://tidbcloud.com/) page.

> 2. Click **Sign in With Google**. You will be directed to the Google login page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Click **Sign in with Google**. You will be directed to the Google login page.
```
<img width="396" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/59654584/211284092-8df35700-5813-41fb-93c7-baab0b99f4d8.png">

3. Follow the on-screen instructions to enter your Google username and password. 

    If the login is successful, you will be directed to the TiDB cloud console.

    > **Note:**
    >
    > - If this is the first time you sign in with Google, you will be asked whether to accept TiDB Cloud terms. After you read and agree with the terms, you will see the TiDB Cloud welcome page and then be directed to the TiDB Cloud console.

>    > - If you have enabled 2-Step Verification (also called two-factor authentication) for your Google account, you will also need to provide the verification code after entering your user name and password.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   > - If you have enabled 2-Step Verification (also called two-factor authentication) for your Google account, you will also need to provide the verification code after entering your username and password.
```

> ## Sign in with Github SSO

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Sign in with GitHub SSO
```

To sign in with your GitHub account, take the following steps:

1. Go to the TiDB Cloud [login](https://tidbcloud.com/) page.

> 2. Click **Sign in With Github**. You will be directed to the GitHub login page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Click **Sign in with GitHub**. You will be directed to the GitHub login page.
```

> 3. Follow the on-screen instructions to enter your Github username and password.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Follow the on-screen instructions to enter your GitHub username and password.
```

>     If the login is successful, you will be directed to the TiDB cloud console.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    If the login is successful, you will be directed to the TiDB Cloud console.
```

 
     > **Note:**
     >

>      > - If this is the first time you sign in with Google, you will be asked whether to accept TiDB Cloud terms. After you read and agree with the terms, you will see the TiDB Cloud welcome page and then be directed to the TiDB Cloud console.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     > - If this is the first time you sign in with GitHub, you will be asked whether to accept TiDB Cloud terms. After you read and agree with the terms, you will see the TiDB Cloud welcome page and then be directed to the TiDB Cloud console.
```

>      > - If you have configured two-factor authentication for your GitHub account, you will also need to provide the verification code after entering your user name and password.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     > - If you have configured two-factor authentication for your GitHub account, you will also need to provide the verification code after entering your username and password.
```

---
title: SSO Authentication
summary: Learn how to log in to the TiDB Cloud console via your Google account or GitHub account.
---

# SSO Authentication

This document describes how to log in to the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com/) via Single Sign-on (SSO) authentication, which is quick and convenient.

TiDB Cloud supports SSO authentication for Google and GitHub accounts. If you log in to TiDB Cloud via SSO authentication, because your ID and credentials are stored on the third-party Google and GitHub platforms, you will not be able to modify your account password and enable multi-factor authentication (MFA) using the TiDB console. 

> **Note:**
>

> > If you want to log into TiDB Cloud through username and password, see [Password Authentication](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-password-authentication.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> If you want to log into TiDB Cloud through username and password, see [Password Authentication](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-password-authentication.md).
```

## Sign in with Google SSO 

To sign in with your Google account, take the following steps:

1. Go to the TiDB Cloud [login](https://tidbcloud.com/) page.

2. Click **Sign in with Google**. You will be directed to the Google login page.

3. Follow the on-screen instructions to enter your Google username and password. 

>     If the login is successful, you will be directed to the TiDB cloud console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If the login is successful, you will be directed to the TiDB Cloud console.
```
